# Quiz 07: Lean

**1. What are Kanban Boards? How are they used?**

Kanban boards are visual representations of a team's development schedule and what tasks and stories they are currently working on. Additionally, it shows the progress of each of these stories in a large amount of detail. For example, there are several columns on a Kanban board that range from story creation to requirements to development to testing and, finally deployment. As a story's development progress advances it is moved into the corresponding column. This allows the team to quickly at-a-glance view the overall health and progress of their project. Additionally, it is best practice to have certain quotas of stories per column per sprint. Basically, preventing too many stories from accumulating in a specific column. This is done to ensure the health of a project backlog and that stories aren't clustering in a potentially time consuming way, and are in fact being completed when they are supposed to be.

**2. How is Lean similar to eXtreme Programming and Scrum? How is Lean different from eXtreme Programming and Scrum?**

Lean is similar to eXtreme Programming, Scrum and other Agile-based methodologies due to some of its principles. Most notably, these principles are "build quality in", "deliver fast", and "engage everyone". "Build quality in" is most similar to Agile's emphasis on testing, specifically XP's use of Test Driven Development. Both Lean and XP therefore focus on a continuous and frequent testing approach to always ensure system quality. "Deliver fast" is very similar to Agile's sprint-based approach, and both strategies focus on minimizing the time stories spend in production and rapidly shipping them to the product in an incremental manner. Finally, "engage everyone" reflects Agile's team composition and self-organizing strategy. In it, team members are allowed to decide on their own tasks and areas that they feel they can most benefit the project with. This is similar to Lean incorporating many different career fields (such as requirements, designers, customers, testers etc.) into the software development process.

Lean is different from XP and Scrum in the fact that it focuses more on the overall development of a product's value stream and views software development as a step of said stream. XP and Scrum on the other hand focus very heavily on software development and that alone. This often times leads to a segregated work environment in which customers and product owners are separate from the development team, with each group having their own distinct roles, responsibilities, and success criteria. In Lean, the software development team is directly integrated with the rest of the product's team. Lean teams are lead by the overall program or project manager, which is responsible for he product's overall success. Therefore, a lean software development team directly plays a role in an entire product's operation and success and should ideally focus beyond just writing good code, making sure to build what is necessary to make the system viable in a big-picture view.

**3. What is set‐based development? Why is it done?**

Set-based development is the process by which the greater development strategies and technologies are initially decided upon. In set-based development, the developers experiment with various development technologies and strategies to determine the benefits and detriments of each. This experimentation can consist of research, examination and prototyping. Once the developers are sufficiently satisfied with their knowledge of each option, they can then make an informed decision on what choice is most desired. This decision can and should consist of at least some customer interaction, to ensure that both the development team and stakeholder are on the same page and there will be no unpleasant surprises for either party down the line.

**4. Explain Palmer's quotation, "Kanban is the science of not trying to do too much at once".**

Here, Palmer means that the purpose of Kanban is to effectively manage task progress and ensure that stories are actually being completed when they should be. Kanban is designed to prevent groupings of many in-progress stories that may accumulate over time. While many of these hypothetical stories are started, not many are finished, which increases the confusion and complexity regarding the project and calls into question how much development progress is actually being made. Kanban seeks to ensure that stories are completed prior to new ones being opened up. This helps to keep the project backlog in check and give the development team a more accurate sense of the progress they are making.

**5. Describe two of the seven principles of lean.**

Two of the seven principles of lean are:

1. Decide As Late As Possible: put off decision making for as long as possible to ensure that no work will be completed now that may be modified/removed/overwritten in the future. This helps to reduce wasted development time and resources.
2. Eliminate Waste: complete a project with only the exact amount of customer features required. Anything above and beyond the provided requirements that may seem "nice to have" but not yet approved/discussed with the customer should be considered waste as it does not necessarily add value to the project in the eyes of the customer.
